---
layout: post
title: "The End"
---

After what felt like a very short semester, we have reached the end of Object Oriented Programming. Overall I found this course very enjoyable. The classes were fairly short at only 50 minutes per session, so my attention was never lost. All of the content was also fairly practical and it felt like I was learning things that I had actually used in the real world, or could use. All of the code we looked at was examined entirely, so there was never anything that we were just expected to take for granted. In general, it felt like I fully understood the material that was being taught, and it was interesting to see how all of the design patterns could be improved to make the desired programs better and better. Even though at some points it felt like we were being taught very basic concepts, everything was built off previous material and worked together, making all the knowledge worthwhile.

One concern people may have about this course is the daily quizzes; however, in general they weren't that bad. The quizzes never felt like something that I needed to spend time studying for, but they did do a good job testing your knowledge about what was taught on the previous days. For the most part all of the questions were very practical and weren't meant to trick you. The only complaint I would have about them is the time limit that could often cause you to rush through the questions and overlook a simple detail. However, since it is already a short lecture, it makes sense to only spend a small amount of time on the quizzes.

The projects in this course were also all enjoyable. None of them took too much time, but they were all fun to work through. The time spent on the programs was also spent implementing code, and not struggling trying to figure out what to do next like some more difficult courses have you do. On top of just learning more about programming, we also were taught good work flows through the projects. We had to use tools like CI, issue tracking, and git branching, which are all things that I have used during internships. This is the first class that has taught these kinds of skills, all of which are very useful in the real world.

In short, I would say this has been one of my favorite CS courses so far and would love to take more taught by Downing. I highly recommend this course to all CS students.
