---
layout: post
title: "Week Ten: Darwin"
---

### What did I do this past week
This was a fairly short week. We started it off by spending Monday talking about the new Darwin program. Overall it is a pretty fun program. The idea is that you create a world that is a grid, and then in it you have creatures, each defined by their species which is just a set of instructions. Each creature gets a turn to act in the world, allowing us to see how they will behave turn by turn. Our main goal is to write the program so that these worlds can be simulated, and they will be compared to the solution outcomes. However where it becomes fun is we get to create our own species that is supposed to be the best, meaning that in the end it will infect every other creature so that it is the only species left. A couple of us are planning on putting our best creatures against each other once we are done with the project.

Other than the project, we just had a speaker come on Wednesday and then no class on Friday due to the 50th anniversary of the computer science program.

### What's in my way
Like always, I just have assignments for other classes, and the work that I need to get done for my job. The main assignment I need to finish is an essay for my english class, but that is due soon, so it should also be out of my way soon.

### What will I do next week
This week I will work on finishing up the project.

### My experience
This week's program has been pretty fun so far. My main confusion with it is that we are supposed to design it in a way that the classes know as little about each other as possible, but we aren't supposed to use abstraction. This seems odd to me, because in order to maintain the single responsibility principle, each class has to rely heavily on the others, meaning they know about each other since there is no abstract classes or delegates in the middle. It really isn't that big of an issue, and hopefully once we have the program written we will be able to trim it down a bit.

### Tip of the week
Today's tip of the week: Make sure your software/company/brand has good design. What the user sees has a big impact on their opinion as a whole. Even if the idea is really great, if the user doesn't think it looks nice, they will probably think less of it or simply use a different program.
