---
layout: post
title: "Week Two: Getting settled"
---

### What did I do this past week
Classes are starting to give out assignments, but since we didn't have class on Monday this was another slow week. On Wednesday we began to look at the collatz project. We did an overview of what is expected, going through the workflow of how to get everything set up, and what the basic requirements are. On Friday, we then went into how to make tests in python so that we can test our code. This led into looking at some of the possible optimizations we can use to improve our solutions. 
Besides SWE, in my graphics class we started to look at how ray tracing works and the math involved for that. The ray tracing project will be posted this week, so I will need to begin on that soon. 

### What's in my way
This week will be a fairly busy one. The collatz project is due on Thursday, which will also be the day the I need to go to the career fair. On Wednesday I will be teaching our first iOS workshop for MAD of the semester. And what may be the most time consuming is starting on the ray tracing project for graphics, which I have heard can take a long time to figure out and get working.

### What will I do next week
My plan for the week is to first finish up the collatz project since I have already gotten all the tests passing on Hacker Rank. After that, I should have time to do each task day by day with no issue.

### My experience
Starting on the collatz project was pretty fun. I started by just thinking about different solutions that might be fast enough to pass all the tests. Last year when we did the project in c++, a simple lazy cache was fast enough, but I knew that wouldn't be good enough in python. Surprisingly, one of my first ideas for a simple improvement was fast enough. Instead of solving the problem iteratively, which results in the lazy cache only being able to store the cycle length of the input value without extra work, I wrote a solution that solved it recursively. Since the function is recursive, at every step in the cycle it is able to add to the cache. I knew this would be a bit faster, but did not expect it to pass all the tests on Hacker Rank.
My one complaint with the project is that even though we are expected to turn in the code after it has been well formatted, the starter code we begin with is riddled with complaints from the linter. Simply running the starting code with no changes produces dozens of messages about bad variable names, missing documentation, and bad whitespace. I went through and cleaned it all up, but I feel like that wasn't a step we should have to take.

### Tip of the week
With the career fair coming up, my tip of the week is to just be yourself and not worry too much about the little things when talking to companies. When they are looking at who to hire, it is important that you have the skills needed for the job, but when it comes to their decision, who you are and how they felt about you is a big part. They want to get a feel for what you are like as a person, not to just get scripted responses that make you seem like the ideal student.