---
layout: post
title: "Week Six: The Test"
---

### What did I do this past week
This past week was a long one. Starting on Monday I had an all day interview that started at 9:00am and ended at 8:00pm. I think it went pretty well, but it was a long day. Because it was all day, I unfortunately missed class, and even the Atlassian talk that was worth extra credit. The next day was another long day since I had to go to work and then spend all night working on a graphics project. I finished up the base of the project pretty quickly, but then ran into an issue where certain objects weren't working, and there was no clear reason why. I spent many hours looking into it and even talked with the professor for about two hours, but never got it working properly. The rest of the week was comprised of homework, another interview, and a hack night.

In SWE, we looked more at generators, and how we could make the map function in a couple ways. The main focus on Friday was using the Yield keyword in order to have a function that instead of running and returning a value when called, instead works lazily as a generator. The function runs until it reaches a yield statement each time next is run on it.

### What's in my way
This week we have our first test! Overall I don't think it will be too bad. I have been doing fairly well on all the quizzes, and everything covered in class makes sense. Other than that, I have another interview tomorrow, and more graphics assignments that I need to work on.

### What will I do next week
This week I will be running through each of the topics we covered in class to make sure I am ready for the test. Other than that I will just be working on other assignments. Family will also be in town later this week to visit!

### My experience
The things we are looking at in python continue to be interesting, and I hope to see more ways that they can be used in practical situations!

### Tip of the week
Branch out. Often it is easiest to keep doing what you know, and its not a bad thing to keep improving at a certain skill. However, it is also good to try new languages and platforms. Having a little knowledge about a lot of things will give you a better overall understanding of computer science, and will also give you a chance to possibly discover a new passion.