---
layout: post
title: "Week Nine: More traveling"
---

### What did I do this past week
This past week was mostly spent on getting everything for phase two of our project finished. My primary role was getting information for our site into our database. I wrote a couple of scripts to pull down all the relevant information from our sources, and overall ended up getting a large amount of information. However, everything didn't go super smoothly, because we did run into a few small issues. The biggest issue was getting models that had little to no information on them. There were many cases where the information we pulled was not complete, and so we didn't always have the information we wanted. In general, the video game objects had good information, but the other objects, like characters, would frequently not have very much. We also ran into an issue along the way where using the images has they were hosted by our sources would not work. Since we didn't have control over the images being hosted, trying to link to them would cause issues if the files were too big, or if we didn't know the file type we were trying to get. After looking into the way that they were being hosted, I decided to also write a quick script to download all the images, and then upload them so that our account is hosting the images. This gives us control by letting us request the images as certain sizes, and as any file type.

### What's in my way
The biggest thing in my way is just more projects. I have a large graphics project due in a week, so I will be spending a lot of time on that. I also have an interview in Seattle, so I will be traveling on Wednesday and Thursday.

### What will I do next week
This week I will mostly be focused on graphics. When I am in Seattle I will try to get some work done, but we will see how productive I manage to be.

### My experience
In class we have begun to look into SQL and the different operations you can perform on tables. Overall I feel that this has been very helpful. I have used SQL in the past, but never frequently enough to really have a good mastery over the different operations. Looking at them more in depth and more frequently is good practice, so the next time I have to use it I will hopefully be more familiar with it.

### Tip of the week
Explore different IDEs and editors that are available. There are a lot of different programs out there, and even if you are fine with the environment you have been using, you might find a tool that really suits you better. These don't all have to be just for programming either, such as Typora for making a markdown document that is rendered as you type.