---
layout: post
title: "Week Ten: Projects"
---

### What did I do this past week
This past week, like always, was a busy one. On Monday we had a MAD hack night, so I was at that all day after my classes. Some of that time was spent starting on my graphics project, but most of the time was spent talking with other people who were at the event. On Tuesday I had work, and when I got back from work I spent the night getting my graphics project running. On Wednesday I flew out to Seattle for an interview, so most of the day was spent traveling. Thursday was spent interviewing in Seattle and traveling back home. From then to now I have been working on getting my graphics project working since it is due on Wednesday.

In class we began looking at regular expressions and how they can be used to search through a string for parts that match a pattern. I used regular expressions a lot last semester when I was taking compilers, since they play a large part in parsing the code and generating the assembly needed.

### What's in my way
Getting all my projects done on time will be the biggest thing in my way. The inconvenient thing is that both of my projects, the one for graphics and the one for SWE, are due at about the same time. On top of that I need to make sure I am also working to get my project at work done on time since it has a deadline that is approaching. 

### What will I do next week
Right now I have been focusing on getting my graphics project completed. I will probably work mostly on that for the next day or so, and then I will switch over to working on SWE. Since I can take a few slip days for graphics, I will make sure I get what I need finished for SWE before worrying about my graphics project being perfect.

### My experience
Regular expressions have seemed neat, and having used them in compilers I have seen that they can be useful, however I struggle to see many additional places where they would save a ton of time. Downing has mentioned that they have saved him countless hours, and brought them up because they might be useful to us in our projects, but I can't really think of many places to use them. Sure you could check to see if something matches a pattern such as an email, but what are some better examples of where they could be used more frequently in more common situations? All of the matching we have been shown in class is just finding arbitrary patterns in basically random strings. This does a good job of teaching how the regular expressions work, but doesn't really show off how useful they can be.

### Tip of the week
Video game music makes pretty good studying and working music. Since it is meant to be background music for the most part, it isn't intrusive to your thought process, but still keeps you engaged.