---
layout: post
title: "Week Thirteen: My Thoughts"
---

### The Class
Overall I found this class to be a fairly enjoyable one. Downing seems to really care about teaching the tools and skills that will be needed when working on projects outside of school, and the project was a good experience for actually creating something that looks good to show off. Most of what he taught related to Python was also quite interesting. We got to see a bunch of techniques and parts of the language that you might not have picked up on if you simply started using the language on your own.

While in general I enjoyed the class, I do have a couple complaints about what could have been better. The first is that I don't think all of the tools we used were the best choices, or even necessary, for the project. GCP is an easy point to complain about. Compared to other services we could have used, GCP seemed overly complicated and expensive for what we were doing. In just this semester, we had to spend over $400 to keep our site, one with virtually no traffic outside our own testing, online. I realize that we could have used the standard version and kept the price down to around $50, but that still seems way too high for a site that no one is frequently going to. Also, the restrictions on using the standard version, such as not being allowed to run Python 3, seem fairly limiting for something that you are still having to pay for. In the past I have used other services such as Heroku, and while the site being hosted there isn't quite as big, it has been hosted for about a year, on a free account. 

Some of the other tools, while probably still useful, just felt like a lot of overhead. I understand the intention of having students use these so that they are familiar with them if they ever need to, or are required to, use them in the future. However, I think that if the number of tools required was fewer, those tools would be better utilized during the project, and so the students would be better at using them instead of just having a basic knowledge about many. For the most part, many of the tools just felt like things we had to check off the list on each part of the project instead of things that actually helped us get our site made.

The other part of the class that I feel could be approached in a better way is when we covered SQL. I liked the initial approach of explaining everything as how it could be made using Python. This provided a familiar environment for teaching the concepts of how everything works. But, once we got to doing the actual queries, things started to get a bit confusing. Many of the examples didn't use real data, which would have helped show some of the reasons why you would make the types of queries that we were shown. We also didn't really get any practice writing our own queries. Since the website project was made to be independent of what we were doing in class, we never actually had to use SQL. We did a few examples in class, but since there are many ways to approach writing a query, even when we were shown the answer, we didn't really know if the way we did it was wrong or not. I understand that we could try setting up and running some queries ourselves, but it might have been useful to have some premade code to test what we were doing.

In the end those are really my only complaints with the class. I think for the most part the lectures were enjoyable, and the project was a cool experience.
