---
layout: post
title: "Week Nine: Allocated"
---

### What did I do this past week
This week we finished the Allocator project. Overall it was a pretty neat project, and definitely required the most programming so far. Writing the different methods went fairly smoothly with only one time where our math was off and we started getting stack smashing errors. Conveniently we actually found this bug through our valid method, proving its worth. After working on our methods to what we thought was complete, we spent a lot of time writing an abundance of unit tests to make sure we didn't miss any odd edge case. In the end everything appeared to work correctly, so hopefully that is the case.

In class we continued to look at how vector is implemented. We looked at a couple versions, with and without an allocator, and with the ability to pass in an allocator. One point that was highlighted was creating the assignment operator and constructor so that the arrays were actually copied instead of just copying the pointer to the array.

### What's in my way
This week I have another test for my architecture class. Because I was so busy this past week, I haven't gotten around to studying yet, so that will be my main focus these next few days.

### What will I do next week
The next project was just posted, and it looks pretty fun. We get to make a Darwin program where different creatures with sets of behaviors interact in a grid. As soon as my upcoming test is over, I will start getting this project finished as soon as I can.

### My experience
This class continues to teach interesting approaches to solving problems. The main example I have from this week was one of the ways we implemented the assignment operator. Instead of simply copying all of the fields over, including creating a new array, which would essentially be implementing the copy constructor again, we just swapped all of the values from the copy passed in as an argument. This way, the copying was handled by the copy constructor when creating the passed in argument, and then we simply took all of its values. I found this to be a very interesting approach that wasn't one I would have first thought of.

### Tip of the week
Today's tip of the week: Code frequently, but make sure you take breaks. Stepping back from a problem and doing something else for a bit will prevent you from becoming tunnel visioned with your work. You will feel more refreshed coming back and possibly have new ideas that you previously didn't think about.
