---
layout: post
title: "Week Six: Learning"
---

### What did I do this past week
This week was a fairly simple one, just normal classes where we learned things. The main new topic that we began looking at was lambdas in C++. These are unnamed functions, so if a method takes in a function, you can just write it inline instead of having to declare it somewhere. I have used these in other languages, but this was my first time seeing them in C++. The main thing that stood out to me with the syntax was that the return type is defined after typing an arrow, "->". This syntax is interesting and I didn't know that it was used in languages other than Swift.

The next fun thing that we began doing was actually writing a class. So far we have mostly just looked at functions, so finally in week six of OOP we got to actually make an object. The class that we made was a simple range_iterator, but through it we got to see how to write a proper constructor, override operators, and just generally see how classes are made in C++.

### What's in my way
I don't actually have anything blocking me right now.

### What will I do next week
This week we have our first test. I am interested and almost excited to take it, since the entire test will just be programming. So far I have found everything we are looking at fairly interesting, so I imagine anything we are asked to program will be a fun challenge.

### My experience
Nothing new to add. I still am really enjoying Downing's teaching style, and overall the class has been enjoyable.

### Tip of the week
Today's tip of the week: Always take your time when looking over code. If it is a PR for a project you are on, looking carefully and finding the bugs now instead of later will probably end up saving time in the long run. More relevant to this course, I have made a couple careless mistakes on quizzes that I could have easily avoided if I had spent the full time allowed for the quiz looking more carefully at the problems. In short, there is no benefit in rushing through code review.